BOYS will be BOYS Newsletter #1 FEB 1992 

Well, quite a bit has happened since I last put pen to paper for Boys Will Be Boys. Following what was basically a media blitz on my part, having been interviewd by most major gay and lesbian publications locally (and interstate), I managed to get the point across that the issue of F2M transsexuality is an invisible one that needs to be dealt with, particularly in the lesbian community. The concept that quite alot of us boys are out there in one form or other, is now beginning to become apparent to many of us. I have been overwhelmed by the response to this support group from women who know they are men. Eight F2M boys have come to my attention within the last two months. Though seemingly a small number, compared to knowing only a handful previously and having met no-one before my gender change, this is quite incredible and only goes to show that there are more of us out there than we may well have imagined. 

Naturally, this is only the tip of a very isolated iceberg. Many of us are still feeling alienated or unsure of our decisions. Most of us lack sufficient information, especially medical, to better aid our decisions. All of us need support. For those of you on this mailing list please consider writing something of yourself and your experiences for others to read. Only first names will be used and naturally no adresses or phone numbers unless specifically given for publication will be printed. It's important that we share our thoughts, insecurities, excitement fears and knowledge. This group can only work if each individual is prepared to participate, even just a little. Don't leave this newsletter up to a dedicated few. This support group can have a far reaching impact on the quality of our lives and the education of the community at large. You don't have to already have changed yourself physically yet, or ever intend to, to be involved. Your awareness of your male gender is all that is relevant. 

This is the first of our newsletters to be received as a continual addition to the info kit you may already have. Hopefully, we'll have enough input from you all (news, medical info, tips, letters, fiction, book lists etc) to send it out every month. Obviously funds are needed for photocopying, postage, contacting o'seas groups and such, so any small financial donations would be much appreciated. We've published a couple of letters written specifically for this newsletter plus other relevant info. This particular newsletter was put together by myself (Jasper) and newcomer, Alex from Sydney. 

LETTER 
Dear BWBB, 
I found your letter heartnening. The info kit I found exciting, inspiring and bloody terrifying. I will tell you a bit about myself. 

I am 37 yrs old, a little bloke only 5ft 4" and 8 1/2 stone. I'm the third youngest of ten and although born in the country lived most of my life in Sydney. I came to Newcastle four years ago to do something with myself. I have just finished a University degree in social welfare. Before coming here, I ran a goat farm and worked as a fencing contractor. I've also been a builder's labourer and vet nurse. 

It terrifies me to think that the things I have always dreamed about, my private reality, have any meaning to anyone but me. Although I have hung around with lesbians for 20 years, I have only ever fallen in love with straight women. Which is, as you can imagine, totally a pain in the arse. Screws you around to the max. I feel totally schizaphrenic at times. 

Anyway, Jasper, what you are doing is great for us all and whatever I can do I will. Regards Mike (NSW) 

Dear Jasper (BWBB)
 I'm glad to make your aquintance as a female-to-male transsexual. I myself am a female-to-male transvestite. No interest in hormones or surgery but I cross dress nearly 100% of the time and have been a man soul since birth. I'm glad to know we're both running important projects. I'd like to receive the "Boys Will Be Boys" newsletter. All the best, 
Bet Power U.S.A 

Bet Power is the founder and leader of the Anerican women's SIM support group Shelix which has its own newsletter and organises regular meetings, workshops and play nights. Shelix is one of the few women's organisations that welcomes transsexuals into its ranks and encourages the exploration of cross dressing and gender play. 

INTERESTING BIT 
The current issue of the American lesbian sex magazine "Bad Attitude" (Vol VII #IV) features two photographs of an unamed F2M transsexual. He looks terrific. Though obviously pre-op, this boy has worked-out hard to create a convincing male torso (yes, even reducing his breasts down to virtually nothing!) with muscle-bound shoulders and arms, plus a well-shaped chest and flat tummy. Now, for unkept people like me, this is quite inspiring and a reminder for all of us on hormones that we can build-up remarkably (if desired) within a short time if we make the effort. For myself, there's not much point in having facial hair and a deep voice if my torso remains that of a pre-pubescent boy! Anyway here's a photocopy of one of the snaps ... 

The recent Australian-made documentary on spiritual sexuality titled "Sacred Sex", has been showing around the country for the last three or four months. If it comes your way then go and see it as it stars Annie Sprinkle, and briefly, her transsexual lover Les. Annie's presence in the film saves it from total boredom and an overemphasis on heterosexuality. I was 

continued over

lucky enough to catch up with her in Sydney and pass on in formation about BWBB for her to give to Les, so perhaps we'll hear from him sometime. In Sacred Sex, he strips down to show the viewer the result of his many operations which of course includes his penis. For this moment alone, the movie is a must for us boys. It's fantastic to actually sec phalloplasty (almost) in the flesh rather than in some badly printed, out-of-date medical book. His voice is also one of the deepest male voices I've ever heard! He and Annie have also made a video of their experiences together, documenting Les' process and operations and it includes their first sex-session with his then new penis. It's called "Linda/Les and Annie". We'll try and convince them to send us a free copy and then raise the SSO needed to transfer it to Australian VHS. In the next newsletter we'll reprint Les' article, originally in "Rites or Passage" and Wicked Women, on his thoughts toward Annie and his new sexuality. 

NEWS

Representatives from BWBB were invited to attend a meeting ofthe Transsexual Liberation Coalitio11 (T.L.C.) in Sydney on Dec 18 and were asked tu become active members. The organisation is about forwarding our right to equality, giving us specific access to educational and job-training programmes as a group, networking and gathering information plus working toward a non-government funded space and facilities. I (Jasper) attended the meeting and was glad to provide what was to be the only F2M visibility but obviously felt a little awkward in speaking on behalf" of a group that hasn't actually been fully formulated or recognised yet! Naturally, a number of issues raised were not relevant to F2M trannies, givell that the majority or people in atteudance were women, yet the overall aims or the group are absolutely necessary to us. Allyone interested in coming to the next meeting and providing more visibility, please contact me on (02) 319 2034. 

Recently, Jasper was filmed by Cayte Latta, a Sydney film maker, for a 12 minute video titled "F2M". The video comprises short dialogues by Jasper on a number of personal subjects, including fetishes, childhood etc. Though titled F2M, the video is more of a profile than an attempt at exploring the issue of transsexuality but none-the-less does give F2Ms more visibility and opens discussion. The video will be screened at this years Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras film festival in February with the possibility of international screenings. 

(Jasper: This video became quite overwhelming for me but not because of its content (which is really not that interesting) or the fact that I was being filmed. In playing it back it gave me the opportunity to step outside of myself and look at what and who I had become in just under a year of hormone treatment. I could see this guy on film with a goatee and poor excuse for a moustache. I could hear this, albeit slightly queenie, man's voice. And it was me! All last year I had been unable to gain enough distance from myself to see who was in the mirror, so it was quite a revelation to watch this video and finally say to myself that Jasper is reflected in the mirror, not Francine (my previous name). Admitting that and letting her go is proving to be scary and one of the saddest things in my life but I guess necessary. How do any of Syou feel?) 

FEATURE 
Dear Fellows, 
I guess my story is similar to many of yours. I have at various times, attempted to live both as a man and as a womyn and spent two years in the States where I lived and worked openly as a man. My lovers credibility as both an American and well respected, leather dyke made my welcome and acceptance as a man so much easier. I was able to work in a hospital as a male nurse even though my nursing registration had my female name plastered all over it and spent much of my time savouring the freedom of living as a man. This was not without its problems, though these were basically of a personal rather than political nature. There was initially some confusion for me regarding gender of my lover/s and although I had a female lover, I was eventually able to become the lover of a gay man who taught me some invaluable things about sexuality and gender. My lover was killed, and I with good Catholic guilt, abandoned my Y fronts and moustache, and came home to Australia, where I have tried to pursue the life of my given gender. It is made harder for me, because although I am a leather person and a respected top, I have all the acceptable feminine traits, such as long, blonde hair and a slim build. Fortunately though, I have no breasts and am quite tall, so androgny has been both my saviour and my cloak to hide behind. I call myself a man and feel like a man, although I have lacked the courage to embark on changing my gender medically, for fear of ostracism and loss of community (?). The thing about my lifestyle at the present time Is that it is highly dangerous. I work the beats 2 or 3 times per week and have had a few nasty encounters with poofter bashers and with one gay man who was horrified to discover that my cock was indeed rubber. My life is also interwoven with lies, in that I am out to a very few people and am constantly confusing people with my transient gender. I have found that the dyke community in particular, very much wants you to define yourself and that the community lacks compassion for those of us who reject our cunts. Fate intervened last week. After an emergency op'for a ruptured ovarian cyst (oh, the anger of being reminded on such a primitive level of ones femaleness), I find that I have acute endometrlosis, a condition that can only be controlled by large quantities of male hormones which suppress menstruation and ovulation. The doctor counselled me in regard to the effects of the drug; hair growth, voice changes, muscular shape, Increased muscle tone and bulk, enlarged clitoris, decrease in breast size and mood swings. I was elated! Having put off medically altering my gender, I now find that a decision has been made for me. The drug is called: DANAZOL, and Is a synthetic male hormone that Is administered by injection and eventually in tablet form. As I have not started the drug as yet, (Monday is the big day), I am unable to report side effects and the success of this drug In altering my appearance. What I do know Is that a hysterectomy will be necessary in approx' 12 months time to finally cure the endometriosis (bliss!). At the present time, I am quite a wimpy, academic sort of man with a strong jaw and long hair bound in a plait. I am hoping for a taut arse and a Kristian Schlater/ Robin Williams sort of effect once my appearance starts altering but guess that this is just wishful thinking on my part. I enjoy the gay, male leather bars, where I feel more at home and where I have had acknowledgment of my gender as male. Lets just hope my uniforms still fit in three months time! I have often felt ashamed and saddened that I was unable to take steps to transform my gender and didn't know whether I was a transsexual or not. Isolation is a living death. 
I feel that the most Important aspect of this group is that there is no definition of what constitutes transsexuallty and therefore no rejection or judgement. You don't have to receive medical or surgical treatment to call yourself a trannie or to be a man. I am a member of the medical profession In Melbourne and am endeavouring to find out about the medical status of F to M transsexuals in Melbourne, which I believe is archaic. Well, fellows, I would like to meet any boys who are embarking on this journey or who just want to have a chat. I would very much like to contribute to lessening the feeling of our Isolation as men and as trannies. 
Regards, 
Dan, Melbourne. 

EXTRAS
* Thanks to DAN for donating $25 to BWBB toward our photocopying and postal expenses. 
* DALE from Melbourne has offered to be a VIC contact for other transsexuals in the state and particularly in Melbourne where he resides. Dale is also making a room in his house available for brothers in need of emergency accomodation. He can be contacted on PAGER (03) 132222 page no. 263748. 
* A new transsexual group has started in the U.S aptly called "F2M". Their address is 5337 College Ave, #l42 Oakland CA 94618 USA. We've sent a letter off so hopefuiiy we will make a direct contact in the US and can share information between our countries.