BOYS WILL BE BOYS BI-MONTHLY NEWSLETTER #15 AUGUST-SEPT1993 

We received two articles from Jamie concerning his longa waited HERB and have published in full his second article inside. So, tor our intro this time around, I'll give you snippets of Jamie' first impression of his HERB ... 

"(The HERB) is made from silicone molded around a wire cage. The harness is attached to the back of the cage, through the silicone, by very strong string. There is absolutely nothing sharp or pointy that can accidently poke out and jab you. The bad news is that being made of silicone means it is not soft or 'moldable' as the real thing and thid causes a few problems with wearing it particularly under tight jeans or shorts. The scrotum itself is quite hard, lacking in any looseness at all and will often fold itself under you thereby pullir everything else out place. This is not a great problem when wo without the U.D (urinal device). However, with the U.D in place the odd disaster can (and to me, has) happen. The U.D is easily available in the USA but I'd never seen or heard of it here in this country. It is similar to wearing a short, semi-hard menstrual pad and does take quite a bit of getting used to ... I have found the range of movement not as great as I was told. If you play sport, have a physical job or just run for the bus, it is better not to wear your U.D. 
cont back cover

NEWS

RECENT VISIT 
Recently, Max and Jasper met with Sascha on his visit to Sydney. Sascha resides in Brisbane and is part of our BWBB network. It was great to meet with yet another boy and to listen to his process to date. At21, Sascha gave old farts like Max and Jasper a fresh perspective on how we attempt to view the world as men. Hopefully he will write something for our newsletter in future and keep in touch.
 
INFO FROM MELBOURNE
A tip from the Melbourne network is in response to a recently published FTM article in the Australian Transsexual Support Association newsletter by Jamie. In his column Jamie urged new boys to work out at the gym in preparation for eventual breast surgery. The Melbourne boys take the opposite view, stating that their surgeons have recommended that no pee buildup be attempted until after surgery. The reason being that it makes it more difficult to locate the tissue to be removed and creates extra scarring having to go under muscle to remove tissue as well as causing problems for nipple re-location. Perhaps it is best to consult your own surgeon as to the correct action to take. Thanks guys. 

TLC UPDATE
The Transgender Liberation Coalition has been busy in Sydney of late having launched the Stop The Violence Against Trannies campaign. As part of this campaign, they are undertaking a confidential survey of violence and harrassment as experienced by we trannies. A fundraiser for the campaign was held with the recent special screening of the genderblurred film "Orlando" plus a cabaret night at the infamous Bottoms Up bar in Kings Cross. The TLC is also having regular meetings with key politicians in order to secure changes to the Anti-Discrimination Act of NSW. This is a group well worth supporting. 

GENDER CENTRE LINK
Jasper, on invitation, recently gave a discussion at the newly formed Gender Centre, formally known as Tiresia's House. Although the Gender Centre still operates two relief accomodation houses, the Petersham location is now purely office space and houses a number of workers including developmental and outreach workers. The Centre employs both trannies and many non-trannies of both sexes (no FTMs as yet) and were keen to gain a perspective on FTM issues, hence Jaspers visit. It is hoped that BWBB and the Centre will maintain a regular link and that the Centre will help with our newsletter's on going costs. We are also negotiating to have our conference at their office with refreshments and resources provided by the Centre.

BWBB CONFERENCE 1993 
Dates: Saturday 16tth October 
Time: llam - 4pm Cost: 
TBA Venue: Gender Centre Sydney 

Optional 'Boys Night Out" after days proceedings 
Lunch will be provided - please advise if vegetarian 
The conference will not proceed if less than 5 boys can a attend.

FEATURE

Early last year, there was a whisper amongst the TS men of a new device from the States. The word was that a TS brother had designed a strap-on penis one could urinate with as well as have sex. For some of us, it caused no small amount of excitement. No more would we have to shove socks down our jocks, no more with the gel in a condom, no more keeping our erections (usually a dildoe of some description) in the bedside drawer. At last we could feel like real men! A couple of us quickly wrote away to the USA for the information packs. The first info packs were little more than American hard-sell. We were told of the wonders this new device would perform in our lives but nothing about HOW it actually worked . More information was written away for. The second info packs told us a little more of how things were supposed to work but lacked in any photos of ihe various bits and pieces. 

As I was in the best financial position, I sent away for one of Rhonnie Reeds devices, then known as 'HERB" ( Helping Every Reborn Brother). Over the next couple of months, my phone bill rose to dizzying heights and my typewriter was smoking from the number of letters I sent to Rhonnie. Some of the delay was due to health prblems and were therefore forgivable. However some of the delay could not be excused or forgiven. Eventually though, it did arrive. 

After carefully reading all the directions and following them to the letter, there were still problems. Befor my HERB arrived, Rhonnie had assured me (many times) he was standing behind his product and would help with any problems is they came up. Now for the reality. Since the arrival of my own HERB, I have been unable to contact Rhonnie in any way. I have written a couple of letters and spent a kings ransom in phone calls. My letters, to date, remain unanswered and I have only been able to get his answering machine when I call. The message on his machine stated he was in hospital until the 21st of July but calls made after that date have gotten the same message as before. I started to feel like I'd been ripped off. 

A couple of weeks ago I spoke to a friend in the States and was filled in on what Rhonnie and his devices are really about. It appears I am not the only one who has this problem of non-contact. My friend also owns a HERB and had similar problems with it as I did. He only lives a couple of hundred miles from Rhonnie and gues what...he can't get hold of him either. This tells one a great deal about Rhonnie. 

Another bit of Truth my friend told me was that the HERB only comes in one size! Even though on the order form there is three. Speaking from direct experience, that one size is far too big for practical purposes (like standing, walking and sitting). From what I was told, Rhonnie seems to surface now and then, flash around whatever devices he is touting at the time and then sinks away with the sunset once he has gotten our money. This is not what I would call very brotherly behaviour. I would advise at this point, that the rest of my brothers have nothing to do with Rhonnie and his devices. Some of us just can't afford to lose $A750 his HERB costs us. I am quite prepared to be corrected on this issue but as things stand at present, Rhonnie Reed is too high a risk. Jamie B. QLD 
Ed: Jamie has since heard from Rhonnie but his opinions have not greatly altered. Rhonnie has offered to exchange Jamie's HERB for a smaller, more practical, one at a further cost of US$100. Below: the U.D silicone device 

LETTERS 

Dear Jasper, The contact and the newsletters have given me the hope to keep going after hitting another very low spot after being told that I would not be supported in my belief that I am a Transsexual after 2 years in therapy struggling with depression trying to stay sane and looking desperately for a million "other" reasons why I feel the way I am; a male in a female body which came to light in previous few years of therapy by feeling safe and allowing myself to 'feel", stop denying and to think about "me" for the firsttime in my life. 

That first therapy started out initially for problems within my still longstanding marriage. I also have teenage children and am not "out" to anyone except finally to myself. 

I am now just trying to deal with many things, including guilt. self esteem and getting some everyday life skills like being with people, learning how to drive and deciding what course I will take to finding some employment and trying to find the courage I know I need to stop hiding so I can one day live the life I want to live not just the way others have always expected or told me to. 
Regards, William, NSW 
Ed: Thanks to William for sharing honestly about himself. We have all been in a similar position of psychological distress at one time or another and I wish him well in his endevourto become functional and healthy. Thanks to William for also donating $20 to BWBBs much appreciated! 

Dear Jasper, I have noticed a bit of media attention fom;sed on FTMs, on such programs as "The Opposite Sex" on the ABC, where a 40 year old FTM named Peter was talking, quite comfortably, about himself. To see a man. living as a man, for 25 years was inspiring for me. I can count almost 2 years in my 
experience & I sincerely believe, had I not done this, I would be alive otherwise. Then, a mainstream magazine, Cleo, features an FTM story. I find it all so productive to see us recognised & having our "condition" addressed & so accessible. Six years ago, when I was frantically scouring for information - to work out just what the hell I was - there was nothing, except medical books. So, I feel like something is finally being achieved. Of course, the day when we can live in society without being concerned about being "found out" is yet to come. Still, I keep positive & wish you the best. 
Keep up the good work, Julian, NSW 
ED: It's great to have Julians opinions and thanks to him for donating $20 to our ongoing mailing costs. 

cont from front cover 
When our HERB be prepared to spend alot of time fiddling with the harness to get everything sitting right and comfortable for you. The harness is made from flesh coloured elastic and is quite comfortable to wear. Rhonnie's magic powder is nothing more than Shower to Shower, a talc easily available on any supermarket shelf! It does make HERB feel good and stops any problems with chafing."
 
CONTACTS
AUSTRALIAN TRANSSEXUAL SUPPORT ASSOCIATION P.O.Box 212 New Farm 
FTM 5337 College Ave fr. 142 Oakland. CA USA 94618 FTM UK Queensland 4005 
MELBOURNE CONTACT Dale P.O.Box 328 Northcote VIC 3070 
Boys Will Be Boys P.O.Box 1349 Strawberry Hills Sydney, Australia 2012 
376 Upper Brook St Victoria Park Manchester Ml3 OEP England. UK 
(02) 319 2034 
