BOYS WILL BE BOYS BI-MONTHLY NEWSLETTER #15OCT-NOV1993

NEWS
 
FTM UPDATE 
Yet another FTM newsletter has arrived this time featuring an interesting and extensive interview with writer Maximillian Wolf, a review of the Annual Convention of the American Psychiatric Association by James Green, bits of international news, lots of letters and the continuation of the interview with Leslie Feinberg titled "Gender Outlaw". As usual, a very good and informing read with some great design work now being done. Subscribe to this I highly recommend it!

BOYS OWN 
Hot on the heels of FTM is the latest "Boys Own" newsletter which features a large number of photos (unfortunately badly photocopied) of their annual get together. The guys look fantastic and obviously had a wow of a time. This issue centres mainly upon phalloplasty. Included is a sobering article from a guy who has suffered severe side effects of the surgery despite prior warning. 

There is also a new section called "Medical Tales" plus media snippets and of course, their extensive medical listings. There's also a couple of tips on chest binders. A great read and well worth getting a hold of. 

FTM RESOURCE GUIDE 
There is now 2 new FTM Resource Guide available compiled and published by the FTM Network in America. The FTM group has pooled its resources and has published a 24p guide to Gender Self-Help and Rap Groups, Gender Information and Education Groups, Gender Programs, Medical Service Providers, Professional Societies, Public Speakers on Gender Issues, Publications and :\Jewsletters and vendors of Prosthetic devices. There is a suggested reading list also. The Guide is available for US$3 plus p&h prepaid. The Guide will be reissued each June. 

TLC 
The Transgender Liberation Coalition recently held its Annual General Meeting. No details have been given to us 
yet but we do know that Ben has been appointed to the new committee. Congratulations Ben! 

EXPERIMENTATION 
Max and Jasper are currently experimenting with a litre of liquid latex and God knows what else in order to home grow a prosthetic. Any suggested designs would be welcome. Hopefully we can prototype something affordable and local for all boys interested. Wish us luck! 

SACHA TO HIT U.K. 
Next year, Sacha (Qld) will be taking flight to England for 2 weeks and has offered to be a BWBB representative, sharing information and talks. This is terrific and we wish Sacha well.
 
FTM COLUMN 
For those of you unaware, Jamie is writing a regular column for the Australian Transsexual Association's newsletter, Transaction, called Token Male. If you're interested subscribe to the newsletter and read what Jamie has to say.
 
REVIEW: POLARE 
The first Polare magazine has been published by Sydney's Gender Centre and is defined as a "journal on gender issues". Pol are is a quarterly publication and is funded by the Centre who in turn is funded by the Department of Community Services under the SAAP Program and also by the NSW Health Department under the AIDS Program. 

The theme of the first edition is historical with a number of articles which turn an eye to the past, such as "The Scene was Mean": a brief history of drag in Sydney in the '80s, "The History of Seahorse" and "Great Outings of History". 

The magazine is designed to "report on cultural and social change in the '90s and aims to raise awareness about gender issues and the needs of the people with gender issues, their partners, families and friends." 

There's an informative introduction by each staff member of theGender Centre outlining their role and beliefs. TLC also gets a thorough look in plus the Presidential report. There's a letters page and a news section plus an important Directory assistance. 

And of course, we men are represented thanks to Max, and his daughter, for the their perspective under the column banner of "A Male Point of View". 

Polare is a worthwhile and interesting publication and deserves wide support. A publication can only continue to expand and excite if it is fed by many contributions. Please consider sending your viewpoints to Polare for publication or just write them a letter of thanks and support. 

It's currently a free mag so be quick to write away for your copy before financial restriction sees the introduction of a subscription fee. 

Congratulations to all the staff at the Gender Centre for Polare and to its editor Rochelle.Write to: THE EDITOR P.O.BOX 266 PETERSHAM NSW 2049 

CONTACTS
BOYS WILL BE BOYS P.O.Box 1349 Strawberry Hills Sydney. Australia 2012 (02) 319 2034 
MELBOURNE CONTACT Dale P.O.Box 328 Northcote VIC 3070 
AUSTRALIAN TRANSSEXUAL SUPPORT ASSOCIATION P.O.Box 212 New Farm Queensland 4005 
FTM 5337 College Ave #142 Oakland .CA USA 94618 
Boys Own 376 Upper Brook St Victoria Park Manchester Ml3 OEP England, UK 
The Gender Centre 75 Morgan st Petersham NSW 2049 ph (02) 569 2366 10am-5.30pm Mon-Fri 

Yes, I will attend the 1993 BWBB one day Conference. You can either post this coupon to BWBB or telephone Jasper for confirmation. (02) 319 2034 
Name:..........................................................................
Ph No....................................
Sat 16 Oct 11 am-4pm Gender Centre (see contacts) 
$5 cost. Lunch & refreshments generously provided by Centre. Social night to follow conference. 