BOYS WILL BE BOYS MONTHLY NEWSLETTER #12 MARCH 1993 

INTRO 

In our letters section this month we have received a note from a gay man of colour wishing to make contact with other coloured, gay, FTMs. Over the last year of this newsletter, I myself have made contact with a number of gay-identified trannie boys. When queried, I classify myself as a queer person; that is, someone who encompasses many forms of sexuality and therefore is seen as subversive by mainstream society standards. So, as a gay leather man, (and heterosexual, bisexual and lesbian person) let me comment upon homosexuality within our own movement. 

The medical profession in Australia, through my own personal observation, appears not to recognise FTM homosexuality or queerness. They aim to produce cheerful, heterosexual men who will blend easily into society. Now, many trannie men wish to take this path and it is indeed a valid choice as any other. But there are those of us who wish to have differing lifestyles. I learned quickly not to mention my sexual attraction to men and pushed the fact that I was in a relationship with a woman. It seemed to get results which is what we crave. 

I suspect that the medical profession may view gay trannie's as not really being trannie's but rather, women who have not come to terms with their female-ness in relation to men. That being attracted to other men must logically make our core identity female! Until this view is changed and until the professionals cease to view homosexuality (and lesbianism) as abnormal, then gay FTMs will continue to be treated with suspicion and, in some instances, denied treatment. 

In the U.S. trannie homosexuality is only just beginning to be acknowledged (but not necessarily accepted) by the medical profession. Lou Sullivan, founder of the American FTM organisation, did much to bring this issue to the attention of the relevant authorities. We now see FTMs seeking out other brothers for actual relationships, this could perhaps be considered true homosexuality in our case! Unfortunately, Lou died of AIDS in 1991 which brings forward yet another related issue: that of safe sex within our community. 

Safe Sex campaigns have long been targeted toward gay men. As many of us are from the lesbian community, and others from the mainstream society, it is likely that we have not paid too much attention to Safe Sex issues. However, as more of us are coming out as gay, queer, bisexual or are just experimenting, we must educate and protect ourselves against HIV and AIDS related illnesses. 

And yes, many of us are experimenting. In making contact with all of you, I have found many who are having occasional or regular sex with genetic men. Some of you identify strongly as gay men, others prefer to have only relations with women, while others again are heterosexual oriented but are surprised to find themselves desiring men. In some cases it may be that we find relating to other men physically as validating to our own maleness. We may wish to intimately explore the male body we so strongly wish to be our own. Penis fascination is a common 
continued back page ... 

NEWS

FTM NEWSLETTER
The latest FTM has arrived and features a couple of shots of some of the men in this group. I've cut out and reprinted one of them. Hopefully the copier will do it justice! Anyway, articles this quarter focus on their year in 'review', self-process story from Titian, "Transgender through a socialist lens" by Kevin, a heap of letters and news items plus a media watch section. The latest FTM groups to evolve are also given listings including, finally, Boys Will Be Boys. So perhaps we'll get a few letters from the U.S soon (see letters). There is also a fairly extensive article regarding the state of the transgender community in the U.S, written by editor James. For copies: send $2 or write to be put on their mailing list. 

TESTOSTERONE PATCH 
Over the last couple of years, the Testosterone Patch has been tested as an alternative method to shots, mainly in the segment of genetic male population which suffers from testosterone production deficiency. Doctors say the patch is a huge improvement over standard injections because it delivers a natural form of the hormone through the skin, directly into the bloodstream. Not only does the patch stabilise the amount of hormone released into the bloodstream, it also considerably improves bone mass. Hopefully, the patch will be attempted with FTM's as an alternative for those who do not react well to the shots. Source: FTM Jan '93 #22 

MELBOURNE UPDATE
Dale, in Melbourne, has his local BWBB branch up and running. He says that the Melbourne sector, at this point, serves mainly as a social focal point with the option of sharing information. At this stage, companionship is priority rather than political or medical activity. The core group now consists of three with a new boy in the wings. 

COALITION MEETING 
In late February, Max attended a Transgender Liberation Coalition meeting as representative of BWBB. The meeting brought both MTF and FTMs together to discuss issues relevant to both gender groups. Discussed were strategies for the adoption of Transgenderism under the NSW Anti-discrimination Act. The group hope to find an appropriate loop hole to push for trannie rights. They hope that with the use of the new term "transgender", an avenue is possible. Discussion also gave rise to the organisation of a near future Trannie and friends picnic day. Thanks go to Max for being there. 

JAIME'S HERB 
With baited breath we are told that Jamie's HERB will be delivered within the next ten days. There are at least two other Qld boys hovering around his letter box! He promises to take clear photos and to publish them within our pages. Hopefully, I will have a graphics scanner by then which means that I can translate the photos into my computer and print them out on the other end as quality reproductions. 

NEW FTM ARTICLE
This month's New Woman magazine features a FTM article. The article is quite long and focuses upon two Sydney boys, one who identifies as a gay man. Photos are also included. The article is not bad. It just goes to show how many of us are out there and know nothing of each other. Where are these two men? (see Julian's letter for comment) 

LETTERS

Dear Jasper, 
Greetings. Thanks for the newsletters - it's great to know that more brothers are appearing and our number is growing. Sorry to hear of your's and Max's problems with a certain magazine. I don't think it's your naivety at fault here, guys, but a journalist's clear manipulation - something that indeed should be questioned. From another perspective, I recently purchased the latest "New Woman" solely because of the FTM article which was advertised on the cover. I thought it was well-written (without the sort of shockhorror sensationalism that I have encountered with some pieces of so-called journalism) It also showed, not only our diversity in sexual orientation but it humanised all FTMs. The interest and enlightenment will (I sincerely hope) educate people about transgenderism and perhaps give us a voice. Apart from the bullshit, that you and Max had to face unnecessarily, I see it as a positive step. 

Anyway, I'm trying to organise the time and finance for my hysterectomy. I will let you know of details, etc as soon as they become definite. I plan also to be in Sydney April/May, so I look forward, this trip, of having some brothers to meet at last! Well, anyhow, keep up the good work. 
Best Wishes, in Brotherhood, Julian. (NSW) 

Dear Jasper, 
Well, this letter is a long time coming, '92 was a mongrel for some of us. Event ough I have not been in direct l-,ontact, the newsletter has been a great life-line. Much apreciated. 

I have made some monumental changes in my life this last 12 months which have caused me as much confusion mentally as any of my transgender issues. I have been undergoing psycho-therapy for a year which has both clarified my sexuality questions and helped answer some other personal points as well. I have told my family and several friends of my transsexuality & met with a mixture of incredulity and acceptance. I have also moved from a long-time platonic relationship to having a lover for the first time in 6 years. 

I feel a little left out of the brotherhood as all you guys are launching yourselves. But, then for me, just the relief of firstly knowing that my lifetime of 38 years trying to stay sane within my own reality of who I was, was not unreal. And secondly, to be able to start living the way I want to live, not how others feel I should, without segregating myself from mainstream society, is a great triumph in itself. 

I was more than disappointed to miss the get-together last year, the money wasn't a copout, just meant to help. I am looking forward to this year and hope we get together. Keep up the great work mate, if there is anything I can do here in Newcastle, or anywhere let me know. Peace be with you brother, Yours, Mike (Newcastle, NSW 

Dear BWBB, I am an FTM/TS of color. I'm Latino/Indian/West Indian. I am also gay. I've been searching high and low for other FTM/TSs who are Latino, Maori, Pacific Islander, African, Caribbean, Middle Eastern, Asian, Native American etc. And who also identify as gay or bisexual men. 

Finding a female-to-gay male transsexual who's Latino or Maori is a real pain in the neck. If there are any FTM/TS gay men of color in Australia tell to get in touch with me. Please be discreet with the envelope!
Thanks, G.Uacano San Francisco USA 
If you want to get in touch with this man, send us your letter inside a sealed envelope, placed inside a second envelope plus two 45c postage stamps and I will forward it on. I'm hesitant to publish anyone's address, even from O'seas.

Dear Jasper, 
I am sorry not to be in contact with you all that time, it's
 
LETTERS cont.... 

because I had to prepare myself for my first operation (Double Mast.) which I've recently had ... I am alright, sometimes depressed, suffering from alot of frustrations (sexual ones) regarding women but generally l'mfine ... Thankyou for keeping me posted and am looking forward to seeing you. 
Sincerely yours, Allan (Sydney) 

INTRO CONT... 

thread between us. 
Perhaps a key is seen within genetic males themselves. Statistics have shown that the majority of straight men have at one time or other, or on a regular basis, have had and are having sexual contact with other men. In taking testosterone into our body and into our brains, perhaps it is only logical that we follow this pattern. After all, it seems to be a natural component of men to be bisexual, or rather, just sexual! 

Acknowledging that we may desire to make sexual contact with men is one thing but acting upon it is another. For those of us who are pre-op, there comes a point of disclosure for any casual encounter. My own experiences have shown that men usually do not mind what sort of body you have (no matter how contradictory) as long as they can have a sexual encounter. Others are more sensitive to our issues and will act accordingly whilst others may reject our offer. Let's face it, for many, we are a sexual fascination; something kinky. 
For us, however, is the quantum leap necessary in coming to terms with having sex with a man whilst still primarily in the physical form of a woman. There are many ways to approach a gay encounter. For instance, you may choose to use your 'penis', you may choose to have anal sex, you may choose to give oral sex or you may choose to use your female genitals. It is the latter that can potentially cause psychological discomfort or even guilt or confusion. Yet some of us have made this quantum leap. After all, our libido's are quite strong and the testosterone is acting upon the only genitals we have and making them hunger.
 
Each trannie boys deals with (or denies) this contradiction in his own way. For me, I feel it does more harm to me physically and emotionally to deny my urges than to feel secure enough in my manhood to express myself sexually in the body I have, though for the present it is not the preferred one. 

JASPER 
MELBOURNE CONTACT Dale P.O.Box 328 Northcote VIC3070 
Boys Will Be Boys P.O.Box 1349 Strawberry Hills Sydney, Australia 2012 (02) 319 2034 